
Book of Jasher, Chapter 1 1 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after 
our likeness, and God created man in his own image.

2 And God formed man from the ground, and he blew into his nostrils the breath 
of life, and man became a living soul endowed with speech.

3 And the Lord said, It is not good for man to be alone; I will make unto him a 
helpmeet.

4 And the Lord caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took 
away one of his ribs, and he built flesh upon it, and formed it and brought it 
to Adam, and Adam awoke from his sleep, and behold a woman was standing before 
him.

5 And he said, This is a bone of my bones and it shall be called woman, for this 
has been taken from man; and Adam called her name Eve, for she was the mother of 
all living.

6 And God blessed them and called their names Adam and Eve in the day that he 
created them, and the Lord God said, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth.

7 And the Lord God took Adam and his wife, and he placed them in the garden of 
Eden to dress it and to keep it; and he commanded them and said unto them, From 
every tree of the garden you may eat, but from the tree of the knowledge of good 
and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat thereof you shall surely 
die.

8 And when God had blessed and commanded them, he went from them, and Adam and 
his wife dwelt in the garden according to the command which the Lord had 
commanded them.

9 And the serpent, which God had created with them in the earth, came to them to 
incite them to transgress the command of God which he had commanded them.

10 And the serpent enticed and persuaded the woman to eat from the tree of 
knowledge, and the woman hearkened to the voice of the serpent, and she 
transgressed the word of God, and took from the tree of the knowledge of good 
and evil, and she ate, and she took from it and gave also to her husband and he 
ate.

11 And Adam and his wife transgressed the command of God which he commanded them, 
and God knew it, and his anger was kindled against them and he cursed them.

12 And the Lord God drove them that day from the garden of Eden, to till the 
ground from which they were taken, and they went and dwelt at the east of the 
garden of Eden; and Adam knew his wife Eve and she bore two sons and three 
daughters.

13 And she called the name of the first born Cain, saying, I have obtained a man 
from the Lord, and the name of the other she called Abel, for she said, In 
vanity we came into the earth, and in vanity we shall be taken from it.

14 And the boys grew up and their father gave them a possession in the land; and 
Cain was a tiller of the ground, and Abel a keeper of sheep.

15 And it was at the expiration of a few years, that they brought an 
approximating offering to the Lord, and Cain brought from the fruit of the 
ground, and Abel brought from the firstlings of his flock from the fat thereof, 
and God turned and inclined to Abel and his offering, and a fire came down from 
the Lord from heaven and consumed it.

16 And unto Cain and his offering the Lord did not turn, and he did not incline 
to it, for he had brought from the inferior fruit of the ground before the Lord, 
and Cain was jealous against his brother Abel on account of this, and he sought 
a pretext to slay him.

17 And in some time after, Cain and Abel his brother, went one day into the 
field to do their work; and they were both in the field, Cain tilling and 
ploughing his ground, and Abel feeding his flock; and the flock passed that part 
which Cain had ploughed in the ground, and it sorely grieved Cain on this 
account.

18 And Cain approached his brother Abel in anger, and he said unto him, What is 
there between me and thee, that thou comest to dwell and bring thy flock to feed 
in my land?

19 And Abel answered his brother Cain and said unto him, What is there between 
me and thee, that thou shalt eat the flesh of my flock and clothe thyself with 
their wool?

20 And now therefore, put off the wool of my sheep with which thou hast clothed 
thyself, and recompense me for their fruit and flesh which thou hast eaten, and 
when thou shalt have done this, I will then go from thy land as thou hast said?

21 And Cain said to his brother Abel, Surely if I slay thee this day, who will 
require thy blood from me?

22 And Abel answered Cain, saying, Surely God who has made us in the earth, he 
will avenge my cause, and he will require my blood from thee shouldst thou slay 
me, for the Lord is the judge and arbiter, and it is he who will requite man 
according to his evil, and the wicked man according to the wickedness that he 
may do upon earth.

23 And now, if thou shouldst slay me here, surely God knoweth thy secret views, 
and will judge thee for the evil which thou didst declare to do unto me this day.

24 And when Cain heard the words which Abel his brother had spoken, behold the 
anger of Cain was kindled against his brother Abel for declaring this thing.

25 And Cain hastened and rose up, and took the iron part of his ploughing 
instrument, with which he suddenly smote his brother and he slew him, and Cain 
spilt the blood of his brother Abel upon the earth, and the blood of Abel 
streamed upon the earth before the flock.

26 And after this Cain repented having slain his brother, and he was sadly 
grieved, and he wept over him and it vexed him exceedingly.

27 And Cain rose up and dug a hole in the field, wherein he put his brother's 
body, and he turned the dust over it.

28 And the Lord knew what Cain had done to his brother, and the Lord appeared to 
Cain and said unto him, Where is Abel thy brother that was with thee?

29 And Cain dissembled, and said, I do not know, am I my brother's keeper? And 
the Lord said unto him, What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood 
crieth unto me from the ground where thou hast slain him.

30 For thou hast slain thy brother and hast dissembled before me, and didst 
imagine in thy heart that I saw thee not, nor knew all thy actions.

31 But thou didst this thing and didst slay thy brother for naught and because 
he spoke rightly to thee, and now, therefore, cursed be thou from the ground 
which opened its mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand, and wherein 
thou didst bury him.

32 And it shall be when thou shalt till it, it shall no more give thee its 
strength as in the beginning, for thorns and thistles shall the ground produce, 
and thou shalt be moving and wandering in the earth until the day of thy death.

33 And at that time Cain went out from the presence of the Lord, from the place 
where he was, and he went moving and wandering in the land toward the east of 
Eden, he and all belonging to him.

34 And Cain knew his wife in those days, and she conceived and bare a son, and 
he called his name Enoch, saying, In that time the Lord began to give him rest 
and quiet in the earth.

35 And at that time Cain also began to build a city: and he built the city and 
he called the name of the city Enoch, according to the name of his son; for in 
those days the Lord had given him rest upon the earth, and he did not move about 
and wander as in the beginning.

36 And Irad was born to Enoch, and Irad begat Mechuyael and Mechuyael begat 
Methusael.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Book of Jasher, Chapter 2 1 And it was in the hundred and thirtieth year of the 
life of Adam upon the earth, that he again knew Eve his wife, and she conceived 
and bare a son in his likeness and in his image, and she called his name Seth, 
saying, Because God has appointed me another seed in the place of Abel, for Cain 
has slain him.

2 And Seth lived one hundred and five years, and he begat a son; and Seth called 
the name of his son Enosh, saying, Because in that time the sons of men began to 
multiply, and to afflict their souls and hearts by transgressing and rebelling 
against God.

3 And it was in the days of Enosh that the sons of men continued to rebel and 
transgress against God, to increase the anger of the Lord against the sons of 
men.

4 And the sons of men went and they served other gods, and they forgot the Lord 
who had created them in the earth: and in those days the sons of men made images 
of brass and iron, wood and stone, and they bowed down and served them.

5 And every man made his god and they bowed down to them, and the sons of men 
forsook the Lord all the days of Enosh and his children; and the anger of the 
Lord was kindled on account of their works and abominations which they did in 
the earth.

6 And the Lord caused the waters of the river Gihon to overwhelm them, and he 
destroyed and consumed them, and he destroyed the third part of the earth, and 
notwithstanding this, the sons of men did not turn from their evil ways, and 
their hands were yet extended to do evil in the sight of the Lord.

7 And in those days there was neither sowing nor reaping in the earth; and there 
was no food for the sons of men and the famine was very great in those days.

8 And the seed which they sowed in those days in the ground became thorns, 
thistles and briers; for from the days of Adam was this declaration concerning 
the earth, of the curse of God, which he cursed the earth, on account of the sin 
which Adam sinned before the Lord.

9 And it was when men continued to rebel and transgress against God, and to 
corrupt their ways, that the earth also became corrupt.

10 And Enosh lived ninety years and he begat Cainan; (0235 + 90 = 0325)

11 And Cainan grew up and he was forty years old, and he became wise and had    (0325 + 40 = 0365)
knowledge and skill in all wisdom, and he reigned over all the sons of men, and 
he led the sons of men to wisdom and knowledge; for Cainan was a very wise man 
and had understanding in all wisdom, and with his wisdom he ruled over spirits 
and demons;

12 And Cainan knew by his wisdom that God would destroy the sons of men for 
having sinned upon earth, and that the Lord would in the latter days bring upon 
them the waters of the flood.

13 And in those days Cainan wrote upon tablets of stone, what was to take place 
in time to come, and he put them in his treasures.

14 And Cainan reigned over the whole earth, and he turned some of the sons of 
men to the service of God.

15 And when Cainan was seventy years old, he begat three sons and two daughters.

16 And these are the names of the children of Cainan; the name of the first born 
Mahlallel, the second Enan, and the third Mered, and their sisters were Adah and 
Zillah; these are the five children of Cainan that were born to him.

17 And Lamech, the son of Methusael, became related to Cainan by marriage, and 
he took his two daughters for his wives, and Adah conceived and bare a son to 
Lamech, and she called his name Jabal.

18 And she again conceived and bare a son, and called his name Jubal; and Zillah, 
her sister, was barren in those days and had no offspring.

19 For in those days the sons of men began to trespass against God, and to 
transgress the commandments which he had commanded to Adam, to be fruitful and 
multiply in the earth.

20 And some of the sons of men caused their wives to drink a draught that would 
render them barren, in order that they might retain their figures and whereby 
their beautiful appearance might not fade.

21 And when the sons of men caused some of their wives to drink, Zillah drank 
with them.

22 And the child-bearing women appeared abominable in the sight of their 
husbands as widows, whilst their husbands lived, for to the barren ones only 
they were attached.

23 And in the end of days and years, when Zillah became old, the Lord opened her 
womb.

24 And she conceived and bare a son and she called his name Tubal Cain, saying, 
After I had withered away have I obtained him from the Almighty God.

25 And she conceived again and bare a daughter, and she called her name Naamah, 
for she said, After I had withered away have I obtained pleasure and delight.

-------------- GOT TO HERE

26 And Lamech was old and advanced in years, and his eyes were dim that he could 
not see, and Tubal Cain, his son, was leading him and it was one day that Lamech 
went into the field and Tubal Cain his son was with him, and whilst they were 
walking in the field, Cain the son of Adam advanced towards them; for Lamech was 
very old and could not see much, and Tubal Cain his son was very young.

27 And Tubal Cain told his father to draw his bow, and with the arrows he smote 
Cain, who was yet far off, and he slew him, for he appeared to them to be an 
animal.

28 And the arrows entered Cain's body although he was distant from them, and he 
fell to the ground and died.

29 And the Lord requited Cain's evil according to his wickedness, which he had 
done to his brother Abel, according to the word of the Lord which he had spoken.

30 And it came to pass when Cain had died, that Lamech and Tubal went to see the 
animal which they had slain, and they saw, and behold Cain their grandfather was 
fallen dead upon the earth.

31 And Lamech was very much grieved at having done this, and in clapping his 
hands together he struck his son and caused his death.

32 And the wives of Lamech heard what Lamech had done, and they sought to kill 
him.

33 And the wives of Lamech hated him from that day, because he slew Cain and 
Tubal Cain, and the wives of Lamech separated from him, and would not hearken to 
him in those days.

34 And Lamech came to his wives, and he pressed them to listen to him about this 
matter.

35 And he said to his wives Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice O wives of Lamech, 
attend to my words, for now you have imagined and said that I slew a man with my 
wounds, and a child with my stripes for their having done no violence, but 
surely know that I am old and grey-headed, and that my eyes are heavy through 
age, and I did this thing unknowingly.

36 And the wives of Lamech listened to him in this matter, and they returned to 
him with the advice of their father Adam, but they bore no children to him from 
that time, knowing that God's anger was increasing in those days against the 
sons of men, to destroy them with the waters of the flood for their evil doings.

37 And Mahlallel the son of Cainan lived sixty-five years and he begat Jared; 
and Jared lived sixty-two years and he begat Enoch.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Book of Jasher, Chapter 3 1 And Enoch lived sixty-five years and he begat 
Methuselah; and Enoch walked with God after having begot Methuselah, and he 
served the Lord, and despised the evil ways of men.

2 And the soul of Enoch was wrapped up in the instruction of the Lord, in 
knowledge and in understanding; and he wisely retired from the sons of men, and 
secreted himself from them for many days.

3 And it was at the expiration of many years, whilst he was serving the Lord, 
and praying before him in his house, that an angel of the Lord called to him 
from Heaven, and he said, Here am I.

4 And he said, Rise, go forth from thy house and from the place where thou dost 
hide thyself, and appear to the sons of men, in order that thou mayest teach 
them the way in which they should go and the work which they must accomplish to 
enter in the ways of God.

5 And Enoch rose up according to the word of the Lord, and went forth from his 
house, from his place and from the chamber in which he was concealed; and he 
went to the sons of men and taught them the ways of the Lord, and at that time 
assembled the sons of men and acquainted them with the instruction of the Lord.

6 And he ordered it to be proclaimed in all places where the sons of men dwelt, 
saying, Where is the man who wishes to know the ways of the Lord and good works? 
let him come to Enoch.

7 And all the sons of men then assembled to him, for all who desired this thing 
went to Enoch, and Enoch reigned over the sons of men according to the word of 
the Lord, and they came and bowed to him and they heard his word.

8 And the spirit of God was upon Enoch, and he taught all his men the wisdom of 
God and his ways, and the sons of men served the Lord all the days of Enoch, and 
they came to hear his wisdom.

9 And all the kings of the sons of men, both first and last, together with their 
princes and judges, came to Enoch when they heard of his wisdom, and they bowed 
down to him, and they also required of Enoch to reign over them, to which he 
consented.

10 And they assembled in all, one hundred and thirty kings and princes, and they 
made Enoch king over them and they were all under his power and command.

11 And Enoch taught them wisdom, knowledge, and the ways of the Lord; and he 
made peace amongst them, and peace was throughout the earth during the life of 
Enoch.

12 And Enoch reigned over the sons of men two hundred and forty-three years, and 
he did justice and righteousness with all his people, and he led them in the 
ways of the Lord.

13 And these are the generations of Enoch, Methuselah, Elisha, and Elimelech, 
three sons; and their sisters were Melca and Nahmah, and Methuselah lived eighty-seven 
years and he begat Lamech.

14 And it was in the fifty-sixth year of the life of Lamech when Adam died; nine 
hundred and thirty years old was he at his death, and his two sons, with Enoch 
and Methuselah his son, buried him with great pomp, as at the burial of kings, 
in the cave which God had told him.

15 And in that place all the sons of men made a great mourning and weeping on 
account of Adam; it has therefore become a custom among the sons of men to this 
day.

16 And Adam died because he ate of the tree of knowledge; he and his children 
after him, as the Lord God had spoken.

17 And it was in the year of Adam's death which was the two hundred and forty-third 
year of the reign of Enoch, in that time Enoch resolved to separate himself from 
the sons of men and to secret himself as at first in order to serve the Lord.

18 And Enoch did so, but did not entirely secret himself from them, but kept 
away from the sons of men three days and then went to them for one day.

19 And during the three days that he was in his chamber, he prayed to, and 
praised the Lord his God, and the day on which he went and appeared to his 
subjects he taught them the ways of the Lord, and all they asked him about the 
Lord he told them.

20 And he did in this manner for many years, and he afterward concealed himself 
for six days, and appeared to his people one day in seven; and after that once 
in a month, and then once in a year, until all the kings, princes and sons of 
men sought for him, and desired again to see the face of Enoch, and to hear his 
word; but they could not, as all the sons of men were greatly afraid of Enoch, 
and they feared to approach him on account of the Godlike awe that was seated 
upon his countenance; therefore no man could look at him, fearing he might be 
punished and die.

21 And all the kings and princes resolved to assemble the sons of men, and to 
come to Enoch, thinking that they might all speak to him at the time when he 
should come forth amongst them, and they did so.

22 And the day came when Enoch went forth and they all assembled and came to him, 
and Enoch spoke to them the words of the Lord and he taught them wisdom and 
knowledge, and they bowed down before him and they said, May the king live! May 
the king live!

23 And in some time after, when the kings and princes and the sons of men were 
speaking to Enoch, and Enoch was teaching them the ways of God, behold an angel 
of the Lord then called unto Enoch from heaven, and wished to bring him up to 
heaven to make him reign there over the sons of God, as he had reigned over the 
sons of men upon earth.

24 When at that time Enoch heard this he went and assembled all the inhabitants 
of the earth, and taught them wisdom and knowledge and gave them divine 
instructions, and he said to them, I have been required to ascend into heaven, I 
therefore do not know the day of my going.

25 And now therefore I will teach you wisdom and knowledge and will give you 
instruction before I leave you, how to act upon earth whereby you may live; and 
he did so.

26 And he taught them wisdom and knowledge, and gave them instruction, and he 
reproved them, and he placed before them statutes and judgments to do upon earth, 
and he made peace amongst them, and he taught them everlasting life, and dwelt 
with them some time teaching them all these things.

27 And at that time the sons of men were with Enoch, and Enoch was speaking to 
them, and they lifted up their eyes and the likeness of a great horse descended 
from heaven, and the horse paced in the air;

28 And they told Enoch what they had seen, and Enoch said to them, On my account 
does this horse descend upon earth; the time is come when I must go from you and 
I shall no more be seen by you.

29 And the horse descended at that time and stood before Enoch, and all the sons 
of men that were with Enoch saw him.

30 And Enoch then again ordered a voice to be proclaimed, saying, Where is the 
man who delighteth to know the ways of the Lord his God, let him come this day 
to Enoch before he is taken from us.

31 And all the sons of men assembled and came to Enoch that day; and all the 
kings of the earth with their princes and counsellors remained with him that day; 
and Enoch then taught the sons of men wisdom and knowledge, and gave them divine 
instruction; and he bade them serve the Lord and walk in his ways all the days 
of their lives, and he continued to make peace amongst them.

32 And it was after this that he rose up and rode upon the horse; and he went 
forth and all the sons of men went after him, about eight hundred thousand men; 
and they went with him one day's journey.

33 And the second day he said to them, Return home to your tents, why will you 
go? perhaps you may die; and some of them went from him, and those that remained 
went with him six day's journey; and Enoch said to them every day, Return to 
your tents, lest you may die; but they were not willing to return, and they went 
with him.

34 And on the sixth day some of the men remained and clung to him, and they said 
to him, We will go with thee to the place where thou goest; as the Lord liveth, 
death only shall separate us.

35 And they urged so much to go with him, that he ceased speaking to them; and 
they went after him and would not return;

36 And when the kings returned they caused a census to be taken, in order to 
know the number of remaining men that went with Enoch; and it was upon the 
seventh day that Enoch ascended into heaven in a whirlwind, with horses and 
chariots of fire.

37 And on the eighth day all the kings that had been with Enoch sent to bring 
back the number of men that were with Enoch, in that place from which he 
ascended into heaven.

38 And all those kings went to the place and they found the earth there filled 
with snow, and upon the snow were large stones of snow, and one said to the 
other, Come, let us break through the snow and see, perhaps the men that 
remained with Enoch are dead, and are now under the stones of snow, and they 
searched but could not find him, for he had ascended into heaven.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Book of Jasher, Chapter 4 1 And all the days that Enoch lived upon earth, were 
three hundred and sixty-five years.

2 And when Enoch had ascended into heaven, all the kings of the earth rose and 
took Methuselah his son and anointed him, and they caused him to reign over them 
in the place of his father.

3 And Methuselah acted uprightly in the sight of God, as his father Enoch had 
taught him, and he likewise during the whole of his life taught the sons of men 
wisdom, knowledge and the fear of God, and he did not turn from the good way 
either to the right or to the left.

4 But in the latter days of Methuselah, the sons of men turned from the Lord, 
they corrupted the earth, they robbed and plundered each other, and they 
rebelled against God and they transgressed, and they corrupted their ways, and 
would not hearken to the voice of Methuselah, but rebelled against him.

5 And the Lord was exceedingly wroth against them, and the Lord continued to 
destroy the seed in those days, so that there was neither sowing nor reaping in 
the earth.

6 For when they sowed the ground in order that they might obtain food for their 
support, behold, thorns and thistles were produced which they did not sow.

7 And still the sons of men did not turn from their evil ways, and their hands 
were still extended to do evil in the sight of God, and they provoked the Lord 
with their evil ways, and the Lord was very wroth, and repented that he had made 
man.

8 And he thought to destroy and annihilate them and he did so.

9 In those days when Lamech the son of Methuselah was one hundred and sixty 
years old, Seth the son of Adam died.

10 And all the days that Seth lived, were nine hundred and twelve years, and he 
died.

11 And Lamech was one hundred and eighty years old when he took Ashmua, the 
daughter of Elishaa the son of Enoch his uncle, and she conceived.

12 And at that time the sons of men sowed the ground, and a little food was 
produced, yet the sons of men did not turn from their evil ways, and they 
trespassed and rebelled against God.

13 And the wife of Lamech conceived and bare him a son at that time, at the 
revolution of the year.

14 And Methuselah called his name Noah, saying, The earth was in his days at 
rest and free from corruption, and Lamech his father called his name Menachem, 
saying, This one shall comfort us in our works and miserable toil in the earth, 
which God had cursed.

15 And the child grew up and was weaned, and he went in the ways of his father 
Methuselah, perfect and upright with God.

16 And all the sons of men departed from the ways of the Lord in those days as 
they multiplied upon the face of the earth with sons and daughters, and they 
taught one another their evil practices and they continued sinning against the 
Lord.

17 And every man made unto himself a god, and they robbed and plundered every 
man his neighbor as well as his relative, and they corrupted the earth, and the 
earth was filled with violence.

18 And their judges and rulers went to the daughters of men and took their wives 
by force from their husbands according to their choice, and the sons of men in 
those days took from the cattle of the earth, the beasts of the field and the 
fowls of the air, and taught the mixture of animals of one species with the 
other, in order therewith to provoke the Lord; and God saw the whole earth and 
it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted its ways upon earth, all men and all 
animals.

19 And the Lord said, I will blot out man that I created from the face of the 
earth, yea from man to the birds of the air, together with cattle and beasts 
that are in the field for I repent that I made them.

20 And all men who walked in the ways of the Lord, died in those days, before 
the Lord brought the evil upon man which he had declared, for this was from the 
Lord, that they should not see the evil which the Lord spoke of concerning the 
sons of men.

21 And Noah found grace in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord chose him and his 
children to raise up seed from them upon the face of the whole earth.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Book of Jasher, Chapter 5 1 And it was in the eighty-fourth year of the life of 
Noah, that Enoch the son of Seth died, he was nine hundred and five years old at 
his death.

2 And in the one hundred and seventy ninth year of the life of Noah, Cainan the 
son of Enosh died, and all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years, 
and he died.

3 And in the two hundred and thirty fourth year of the life of Noah, Mahlallel 
the son of Cainan died, and the days of Mahlallel were eight hundred and ninety-five 
years, and he died.

4 And Jared the son of Mahlallel died in those days, in the three hundred and 
thirty-sixth year of the life of Noah; and all the days of Jared were nine 
hundred and sixty-two years, and he died.

5 And all who followed the Lord died in those days, before they saw the evil 
which God declared to do upon earth.

6 And after the lapse of many years, in the four hundred and eightieth year of 
the life of Noah, when all those men, who followed the Lord had died away from 
amongst the sons of men, and only Methuselah was then left, God said unto Noah 
and Methuselah, saying,

7 Speak ye, and proclaim to the sons of men, saying, Thus saith the Lord, return 
from your evil ways and forsake your works, and the Lord will repent of the evil 
that he declared to do to you, so that it shall not come to pass.

8 For thus saith the Lord, Behold I give you a period of one hundred and twenty 
years; if you will turn to me and forsake your evil ways, then will I also turn 
away from the evil which I told you, and it shall not exist, saith the Lord.

9 And Noah and Methuselah spoke all the words of the Lord to the sons of men, 
day after day, constantly speaking to them.

10 But the sons of men would not hearken to them, nor incline their ears to 
their words, and they were stiffnecked.

11 And the Lord granted them a period of one hundred and twenty years, saying, 
If they will return, then will God repent of the evil, so as not to destroy the 
earth.

12 Noah the son of Lamech refrained from taking a wife in those days, to beget 
children, for he said, Surely now God will destroy the earth, wherefore then 
shall I beget children?

13 And Noah was a just man, he was perfect in his generation, and the Lord chose 
him to raise up seed from his seed upon the face of the earth.

14 And the Lord said unto Noah, Take unto thee a wife, and beget children, for I 
have seen thee righteous before me in this generation.

15 And thou shalt raise up seed, and thy children with thee, in the midst of the 
earth; and Noah went and took a wife, and he chose Naamah the daughter of Enoch, 
and she was five hundred and eighty years old.

16 And Noah was four hundred and ninety-eight years old, when he took Naamah for 
a wife.

17 And Naamah conceived and bare a son, and he called his name Japheth, saying, 
God has enlarged me in the earth; and she conceived again and bare a son, and he 
called his name Shem, saying, God has made me a remnant, to raise up seed in the 
midst of the earth.

18 And Noah was five hundred and two years old when Naamah bare Shem, and the 
boys grew up and went in the ways of the Lord, in all that Methuselah and Noah 
their father taught them.

19 And Lamech the father of Noah, died in those days; yet verily he did not go 
with all his heart in the ways of his father, and he died in the hundred and 
ninety-fifth year of the life of Noah.

20 And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy years, and he died.

21 And all the sons of men who knew the Lord, died in that year before the Lord 
brought evil upon them; for the Lord willed them to die, so as not to behold the 
evil that God would bring upon their brothers and relatives, as he had so 
declared to do.

22 In that time, the Lord said to Noah and Methuselah, Stand forth and proclaim 
to the sons of men all the words that I spoke to you in those days, peradventure 
they may turn from their evil ways, and I will then repent of the evil and will 
not bring it.

23 And Noah and Methuselah stood forth, and said in the ears of the sons of men, 
all that God had spoken concerning them.

24 But the sons of men would not hearken, neither would they incline their ears 
to all their declarations.

25 And it was after this that the Lord said to Noah, The end of all flesh is 
come before me, on account of their evil deeds, and behold I will destroy the 
earth.

26 And do thou take unto thee gopher wood, and go to a certain place and make a 
large ark, and place it in that spot.

27 And thus shalt thou make it; three hundred cubits its length, fifty cubits 
broad and thirty cubits high.

28 And thou shalt make unto thee a door, open at its side, and to a cubit thou 
shalt finish above, and cover it within and without with pitch.

29 And behold I will bring the flood of waters upon the earth, and all flesh be 
destroyed, from under the heavens all that is upon earth shall perish.

30 And thou and thy household shall go and gather two couple of all living 
things, male and female, and shall bring them to the ark, to raise up seed from 
them upon earth.

31 And gather unto thee all food that is eaten by all the animals, that there 
may be food for thee and for them.

32 And thou shalt choose for thy sons three maidens, from the daughters of men, 
and they shall be wives to thy sons.

33 And Noah rose up, and he made the ark, in the place where God had commanded 
him, and Noah did as God had ordered him.

34 In his five hundred and ninety-fifth year Noah commenced to make the ark, and 
he made the ark in five years, as the Lord had commanded.

35 Then Noah took the three daughters of Eliakim, son of Methuselah, for wives 
for his sons, as the Lord had commanded Noah.

36 And it was at that time Methuselah the son of Enoch died, nine hundred and 
sixty years old was he, at his death.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Book of Jasher, Chapter 6 1 At that time, after the death of Methuselah, the 
Lord said to Noah, Go thou with thy household into the ark; behold I will gather 
to thee all the animals of the earth, the beasts of the field and the fowls of 
the air, and they shall all come and surround the ark.

2 And thou shalt go and seat thyself by the doors of the ark, and all the beasts, 
the animals, and the fowls, shall assemble and place themselves before thee, and 
such of them as shall come and crouch before thee, shalt thou take and deliver 
into the hands of thy sons, who shall bring them to the ark, and all that will 
stand before thee thou shalt leave.

3 And the Lord brought this about on the next day, and animals, beasts and fowls 
came in great multitudes and surrounded the ark.

4 And Noah went and seated himself by the door of the ark, and of all flesh that 
crouched before him, he brought into the ark, and all that stood before him he 
left upon earth.

5 And a lioness came, with her two whelps, male and female, and the three 
crouched before Noah, and the two whelps rose up against the lioness and smote 
her, and made her flee from her place, and she went away, and they returned to 
their places, and crouched upon the earth before Noah.

6 And the lioness ran away, and stood in the place of the lions.

7 And Noah saw this, and wondered greatly, and he rose and took the two whelps, 
and brought them into the ark.

8 And Noah brought into the ark from all living creatures that were upon earth, 
so that there was none left but which Noah brought into the ark.

9 Two and two came to Noah into the ark, but from the clean animals, and clean 
fowls, he brought seven couples, as God had commanded him.

10 And all the animals, and beasts, and fowls, were still there, and they 
surrounded the ark at every place, and the rain had not descended till seven 
days after.

11 And on that day, the Lord caused the whole earth to shake, and the sun 
darkened, and the foundations of the world raged, and the whole earth was moved 
violently, and the lightning flashed, and the thunder roared, and all the 
fountains in the earth were broken up, such as was not known to the inhabitants 
before; and God did this mighty act, in order to terrify the sons of men, that 
there might be no more evil upon earth.

12 And still the sons of men would not return from their evil ways, and they 
increased the anger of the Lord at that time, and did not even direct their 
hearts to all this.

13 And at the end of seven days, in the six hundredth year of the life of Noah, 
the waters of the flood were upon the earth.

14 And all the fountains of the deep were broken up, and the windows of heaven 
were opened, and the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

15 And Noah and his household, and all the living creatures that were with him, 
came into the ark on account of the waters of the flood, and the Lord shut him 
in.

16 And all the sons of men that were left upon the earth, became exhausted 
through evil on account of the rain, for the waters were coming more violently 
upon the earth, and the animals and beasts were still surrounding the ark.

17 And the sons of men assembled together, about seven hundred thousand men and 
women, and they came unto Noah to the ark.

18 And they called to Noah, saying, Open for us that we may come to thee in the 
ark--and wherefore shall we die?

19 And Noah, with a loud voice, answered them from the ark, saying, Have you not 
all rebelled against the Lord, and said that he does not exist? and therefore 
the Lord brought upon you this evil, to destroy and cut you off from the face of 
the earth.

20 Is not this the thing that I spoke to you of one hundred and twenty years 
back, and you would not hearken to the voice of the Lord, and now do you desire 
to live upon earth?

21 And they said to Noah, We are ready to return to the Lord; only open for us 
that we may live and not die.

22 And Noah answered them, saying, Behold now that you see the trouble of your 
souls, you wish to return to the Lord; why did you not return during these 
hundred and twenty years, which the Lord granted you as the determined period?

23 But now you come and tell me this on account of the troubles of your souls, 
now also the Lord will not listen to you, neither will he give ear to you on 
this day, so that you will not now succeed in your wishes.

24 And the sons of men approached in order to break into the ark, to come in on 
account of the rain, for they could not bear the rain upon them.

25 And the Lord sent all the beasts and animals that stood round the ark. And 
the beasts overpowered them and drove them from that place, and every man went 
his way and they again scattered themselves upon the face of the earth.

26 And the rain was still descending upon the earth, and it descended forty days 
and forty nights, and the waters prevailed greatly upon the earth; and all flesh 
that was upon the earth or in the waters died, whether men, animals, beasts, 
creeping things or birds of the air, and there only remained Noah and those that 
were with him in the ark.

27 And the waters prevailed and they greatly increased upon the earth, and they 
lifted up the ark and it was raised from the earth.

28 And the ark floated upon the face of the waters, and it was tossed upon the 
waters so that all the living creatures within were turned about like pottage in 
a cauldron.

29 And great anxiety seized all the living creatures that were in the ark, and 
the ark was like to be broken.

30 And all the living creatures that were in the ark were terrified, and the 
lions roared, and the oxen lowed, and the wolves howled, and every living 
creature in the ark spoke and lamented in its own language, so that their voices 
reached to a great distance, and Noah and his sons cried and wept in their 
troubles; they were greatly afraid that they had reached the gates of death.

31 And Noah prayed unto the Lord, and cried unto him on account of this, and he 
said, O Lord help us, for we have no strength to bear this evil that has 
encompassed us, for the waves of the waters have surrounded us, mischievous 
torrents have terrified us, the snares of death have come before us; answer us, 
O Lord, answer us, light up thy countenance toward us and be gracious to us, 
redeem us and deliver us.

32 And the Lord hearkened to the voice of Noah, and the Lord remembered him.

33 And a wind passed over the earth, and the waters were still and the ark 
rested.

34 And the fountains of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the 
rain from heaven was restrained.

35 And the waters decreased in those days, and the ark rested upon the mountains 
of Ararat.

36 And Noah then opened the windows of the ark, and Noah still called out to the 
Lord at that time and he said, O Lord, who didst form the earth and the heavens 
and all that are therein, bring forth our souls from this confinement, and from 
the prison wherein thou hast placed us, for I am much wearied with sighing.

37 And the Lord hearkened to the voice of Noah, and said to him, When though 
shalt have completed a full year thou shalt then go forth.

38 And at the revolution of the year, when a full year was completed to Noah's 
dwelling in the ark, the waters were dried from off the earth, and Noah put off 
the covering of the ark.

39 At that time, on the twenty-seventh day of the second month, the earth was 
dry, but Noah and his sons, and those that were with him, did not go out from 
the ark until the Lord told them.

40 And the day came that the Lord told them to go out, and they all went out 
from the ark.

41 And they went and returned every one to his way and to his place, and Noah 
and his sons dwelt in the land that God had told them, and they served the Lord 
all their days, and the Lord blessed Noah and his sons on their going out from 
the ark.

42 And he said to them, Be fruitful and fill all the earth; become strong and 
increase abundantly in the earth and multiply therein.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Book of Jasher, Chapter 7 1 And these are the names of the sons of Noah: Japheth, 
Ham and Shem; and children were born to them after the flood, for they had taken 
wives before the flood.

2 These are the sons of Japheth; Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and 
Tiras, seven sons.

3 And the sons of Gomer were Askinaz, Rephath and Tegarmah.

4 And the sons of Magog were Elichanaf and Lubal.

5 And the children of Madai were Achon, Zeelo, Chazoni and Lot.

6 And the sons of Javan were Elisha, Tarshish, Chittim and Dudonim.

7 And the sons of Tubal were Ariphi, Kesed and Taari.

8 And the sons of Meshech were Dedon, Zaron and Shebashni.

9 And the sons of Tiras were Benib, Gera, Lupirion and Gilak; these are the sons 
of Japheth according to their families, and their numbers in those days were 
about four hundred and sixty men.

10 And these are the sons of Ham; Cush, Mitzraim, Phut and Canaan, four sons; 
and the sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raama and Satecha, and the sons 
of Raama were Sheba and Dedan.

11 And the sons of Mitzraim were Lud, Anom and Pathros, Chasloth and Chaphtor.

12 And the sons of Phut were Gebul, Hadan, Benah and Adan.

13 And the sons of Canaan were Zidon, Heth, Amori, Gergashi, Hivi, Arkee, Seni, 
Arodi, Zimodi and Chamothi.

14 These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, and their numbers in 
those days were about seven hundred and thirty men.

15 And these are the sons of Shem; Elam, Ashur, Arpachshad, Lud and Aram, five 
sons; and the sons of Elam were Shushan, Machul and Harmon.

16 And the sons of Ashar were Mirus and Mokil, and the sons of Arpachshad were 
Shelach, Anar and Ashcol.

17 And the sons of Lud were Pethor and Bizayon, and the sons of Aram were Uz, 
Chul, Gather and Mash.

18 These are the sons of Shem, according to their families; and their numbers in 
those days were about three hundred men.

15

19 These are the generations of Shem; Shem begat Arpachshad and Arpachshad begat 
Shelach, and Shelach begat Eber and to Eber were born two children, the name of 
one was Peleg, for in his days the sons of men were divided, and in the latter 
days, the earth was divided.

20 And the name of the second was Yoktan, meaning that in his day the lives of 
the sons of men were diminished and lessened.

21 These are the sons of Yoktan; Almodad, Shelaf, Chazarmoveth, Yerach, Hadurom, 
Ozel, Diklah, Obal, Abimael, Sheba, Ophir, Havilah and Jobab; all these are the 
sons of Yoktan.

22 And Peleg his brother begat Yen, and Yen begat Serug, and Serug begat Nahor 
and Nahor begat Terah, and Terah was thirty-eight years old, and he begat Haran 
and Nahor.

23 And Cush the son of Ham, the son of Noah, took a wife in those days in his 
old age, and she bare a son, and they called his name Nimrod, saying, At that 
time the sons of men again began to rebel and transgress against God, and the 
child grew up, and his father loved him exceedingly, for he was the son of his 
old age.

24 And the garments of skin which God made for Adam and his wife, when they went 
out of the garden, were given to Cush.

25 For after the death of Adam and his wife, the garments were given to Enoch, 
the son of Jared, and when Enoch was taken up to God, he gave them to Methuselah, 
his son.

26 And at the death of Methuselah, Noah took them and brought them to the ark, 
and they were with him until he went out of the ark.

27 And in their going out, Ham stole those garments from Noah his father, and he 
took them and hid them from his brothers.

28 And when Ham begat his first born Cush, he gave him the garments in secret, 
and they were with Cush many days.

29 And Cush also concealed them from his sons and brothers, and when Cush had 
begotten Nimrod, he gave him those garments through his love for him, and Nimrod 
grew up, and when he was twenty years old he put on those garments.

30 And Nimrod became strong when he put on the garments, and God gave him might 
and strength, and he was a mighty hunter in the earth, yea, he was a mighty 
hunter in the field, and he hunted the animals and he built altars, and he 
offered upon them the animals before the Lord.

31 And Nimrod strengthened himself, and he rose up from amongst his brethren, 
and he fought the battles of his brethren against all their enemies round about.

32 And the Lord delivered all the enemies of his brethren in his hands, and God 
prospered him from time to time in his battles, and he reigned upon earth.

33 Therefore it became current in those days, when a man ushered forth those 
that he had trained up for battle, he would say to them, Like God did to Nimrod, 
who was a mighty hunter in the earth, and who succeeded in the battles that 
prevailed against his brethren, that he delivered them from the hands of their 
enemies, so may God strengthen us and deliver us this day.

34 And when Nimrod was forty years old, at that time there was a war between his 
brethren and the children of Japheth, so that they were in the power of their 
enemies.

35 And Nimrod went forth at that time, and he assembled all the sons of Cush and 
their families, about four hundred and sixty men, and he hired also from some of 
his friends and acquaintances about eighty men, and be gave them their hire, and 
he went with them to battle, and when he was on the road, Nimrod strengthened 
the hearts of the people that went with him.

36 And he said to them, Do not fear, neither be alarmed, for all our enemies 
will be delivered into our hands, and you may do with them as you please.

37 And all the men that went were about five hundred, and they fought against 
their enemies, and they destroyed them, and subdued them, and Nimrod placed 
standing officers over them in their respective places.

38 And he took some of their children as security, and they were all servants to 
Nimrod and to his brethren, and Nimrod and all the people that were with him 
turned homeward.

39 And when Nimrod had joyfully returned from battle, after having conquered his 
enemies, all his brethren, together with those who knew him before, assembled to 
make him king over them, and they placed the regal crown upon his head.

40 And he set over his subjects and people, princes, judges, and rulers, as is 
the custom amongst kings.

41 And he placed Terah the son of Nahor the prince of his host, and he dignified 
him and elevated him above all his princes.

42 And whilst he was reigning according to his heart's desire, after having 
conquered all his enemies around, he advised with his counselors to build a city 
for his palace, and they did so.

43 And they found a large valley opposite to the east, and they built him a 
large and extensive city, and Nimrod called the name of the city that he built 
Shinar, for the Lord had vehemently shaken his enemies and destroyed them.

44 And Nimrod dwelt in Shinar, and he reigned securely, and he fought with his 
enemies and he subdued them, and he prospered in all his battles, and his 
kingdom became very great.

45 And all nations and tongues heard of his fame, and they gathered themselves 
to him, and they bowed down to the earth, and they brought him offerings, and he 
became their lord and king, and they all dwelt with him in the city at Shinar, 
and Nimrod reigned in the earth over all the sons of Noah, and they were all 
under his power and counsel.

46 And all the earth was of one tongue and words of union, but Nimrod did not go 
in the ways of the Lord, and he was more wicked than all the men that were 
before him, from the days of the flood until those days.

47 And he made gods of wood and stone, and he bowed down to them, and he 
rebelled against the Lord, and taught all his subjects and the people of the 
earth his wicked ways; and Mardon his son was more wicked than his father.

48 And every one that heard of the acts of Mardon the son of Nimrod would say, 
concerning him, From the wicked goeth forth wickedness; therefore it became a 
proverb in the whole earth, saying, From the wicked goeth forth wickedness, and 
it was current in the words of men from that time to this.

49 And Terah the son of Nahor, prince of Nimrod's host, was in those days very 
great in the sight of the king and his subjects, and the king and princes loved 
him, and they elevated him very high.

50 And Terah took a wife and her name was Amthelo the daughter of Cornebo; and 
the wife of Terah conceived and bare him a son in those days.

51 Terah was seventy years old when he begat him, and Terah called the name of 
his son that was born to him Abram, because the king had raised him in those 
days, and dignified him above all his princes that were with him.
